[DOC] A doc page for the extract API (#61051)
odoo/odoo: doc/webservices/extract_api.rst

> :banner: banners/extract_api.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:banner: banners/extract_api.jpg
```

:types: api

:code-column:

===============
Extract API
===============

> Odoo provides a service allowing you to automate the processing of your invoices. The service scans your document using an Optical Character Recognition engine (OCR) and then uses AI based algorithms to extract the fields of interest as the total, the due date or even the invoice lines. More information can be found on the `demo page <https://www.odoo.com/page/invoice-automation>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo provides a service allowing you to automate the processing of your invoices. The service scans your document using an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) engine and then AI-based algorithms to extract the fields of interest such as the total, the due date, or the invoice lines. More information can be found on the `demo page <https://www.odoo.com/page/invoice-automation>`_.
```
This should be the other way around: the website page should link to the documentation for more information.

Author: Yes but I think it is good to have a link in this direction too.

Reviewer: Maybe as advertising but the doc should always be the main source of information. The app pages are always prone to removal and are more difficult to maintain.

This service is a paid service. Each invoice processing will cost you one credit. Three different sized packs can be bought on `iap.odoo.com <https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/259?sortby=date>`_.

> You can either use this service directly in the Odoo Accounting App or by using the API. The Extract API which is detailed in the next section allows you to integrate our service directly into your own projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either use this service directly in the Odoo Accounting App or through the API. The Extract API which is detailed in the next section allows you to integrate our service directly into your own projects.
```
"in the next section" is not resilient to sections swap. Use `ref`.

Invoices
========

> The extract API can be contacted at the following JSON-RPC2_ endpoint: `https://iap-extract.odoo.com`

Reviewer: No need for an external hyperlink target here, since it's only used once.

> The extract API can be contacted at the following JSON-RPC2_ endpoint: `https://iap-extract.odoo.com`

Reviewer 2: > What is neither a link nor a code ? JSON-RPC2_ ? This is a link to JSON-RPC 2 doc. See last line.

The domain of the API, it's just between single backticks.

Expected successful flow
------------------------

> 1. Call :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` to submit your invoices (one call for each invoice). On success, you receive a `document_id` in the response. 

Reviewer: Because the route is the same as the section title I guess. Up to you to see if the "(POST)" adds confusion or not, and thus if a label is required or not.

> 1. Call :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` to submit your invoices (one call for each invoice). On success, you receive a `document_id` in the response. 

Reviewer 2: Because in that case it *should* directly use the section name / label (unless I'm misremembering), so there's less stuff in the document and both should stay in sync.

> 2. You then have to regularly poll the :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>` route to get the document's parsing status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You then have to regularly poll :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>` to get the document's parsing status.
```
Nitpicking: consistency with the other steps.

> 3. Once the result received you can validate it by calling :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/validate <webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate>` and sending the expected values. This step is optional but greatly helps the system to improve.

Reviewer 3: (Comas) 
1. Call :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` to submit your invoices (one call for each invoice). On success**,** you receive a `document_id` in the response. 
2. You then have to regularly poll the :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>` route to get the document's parsing status.
3. Once the result received**,** you can validate it by calling :ref:`/iap/invoice_extract/validate <webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate>` and sending the expected values. This step is optional but greatly helps the system to improve.

These 3 routes are detailed in the next section. A python implementation of the full flow and a token for integration testing are provided at the end of the page.

Routes
------
.. _webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse:

> /iap/invoice_extract/parse (POST)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``/iap/invoice_extract/parse (POST)``
```

'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^
Request a processing of the document from the OCR. The route will return a `document_id` you can use to obtain the result of your request.

Request Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * ``jsonrpc``: A string specifying the version of the JSON-RPC protocol. Must be exactly “2.0”. **REQUIRED**

Author: I think it is clearer/cleaner to have the entire request body detailed at one place. It is never good to expect people to guess stuffs. Ok you will argue that it is the JSON-RPC specs but it costs nothing to detail these fields here.

> * ``jsonrpc``: A string specifying the version of the JSON-RPC protocol. Must be exactly “2.0”. **REQUIRED**

Reviewer 2: OK, it's just that it's there every time.

Also maybe put the "simple" JSON-RPC fields first, even if it's not spec order? e.g. jsonrpc / id / method / params, that way there's not a small `id` bit dangling at the end.

> * ``method``: A string containing the name of the method to be invoked. Must be “call”. **REQUIRED**

Author: Ok

* ``params``:

>     * ``account_token``: token of the account from which credits will be taken. Each successful call cost one token. **REQUIRED**

Reviewer 3: Each successful call **costs** one token.

>     * ``account_token``: token of the account from which credits will be taken. Each successful call costs one token. **REQUIRED**

Author: Don't know what definition lists is.
Indeed putting status at start can be clearer

>     * ``account_token``: token of the account from which credits will be taken. Each successful call costs one token. **REQUIRED**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``account_token``: The token of the account from which credits will be taken. Each successful call costs one token. **REQUIRED**
```

>     * ``account_token``: token of the account from which credits will be taken. Each successful call costs one token. **REQUIRED**

Reviewer 2: Definition lists are a list title with an offset description below. In sphinx it's
```
definition list title
    definition list description
definition list title
    definition list description
```
e.g. https://www.odoo.com/documentation/14.0/reference/data.html#record `model`, `id`, `context` and `forcecreate` are definition list titles, and the offset text is the text, code looks like: https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/9d6f107b1c5b713a6a498409f4f59200b9f7c80b/doc/reference/data.rst#L64-L78

Tho maybe we could / should increase the left-margin a bit on the content for clarity.

>     * ``version``: The version will determine the format of your requests and the format of the server response. Some results can be unavailable in older versions. For the current version 1.2.0, send ‘120’. If not specified, the latest version will be used. **OPTIONAL**.

Author: We only have one version currently active. We don't really plan to publish new version then we should precise that 120 is the only available version.

    * ``documents``: The invoice must be provided as a string in the ASCII format. The list should contain only one string. If multiple strings are provided only the first string corresponding to a pdf will be processed. If no pdf is found, the first string will be processed. This field is a list only for legacy reasons. The supported extensions are *pdf*, *png*, *jpg* and *bmp*. **REQUIRED**
    * ``user_infos``: 

>         Informations concerning the person to whom the invoice is intended. These informations are not required in order for the service to work but they greatly improve the performances. **REQUIRED** (can be empty).

Reviewer 3: **Information** concerning the person to whom the invoice is intended. **This information is** not required in order for the service to work but **it greatly improves** the **performance**.

>         Information concerning the person to whom the invoice is intended. This informations is not required in order for the service to work but it greatly improves the performance. **REQUIRED** (can be empty).

Author: Quality. It seemed obvious to me that giving the system more information will improve the quality performance and not the speed performance but since it is not I will precise it

>         Information concerning the person to whom the invoice is intended. This informations is not required in order for the service to work but it greatly improves the performance. **REQUIRED** (can be empty).

Reviewer 2: Yeah I was thinking that but also possibly that providing metadata would allow more precise filters into some sort of data backend, and thus could improve lookup speed.

        
        - ``user_company_vat``: VAT number of the client. **OPTIONAL**
        - ``user_company_name``: Name of the client’s company. **OPTIONAL**
        - ``user_company_country_code``: Country code of the client. Format: `ISO3166 alpha-2 <https://www.iban.com/country-codes>`_. **OPTIONAL**

>         - ``user_lang``: client language. Format: *language_code + _ + locale* (ex: fr_FR, en_US). **OPTIONAL**
>         - ``user_email``: client email. **OPTIONAL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - ``user_lang``: The client language. Format: *language_code + _ + locale* (ex: fr_FR, en_US). **OPTIONAL**
        - ``user_email``: The client email. **OPTIONAL**
```

* ``id``: An identifier established by the client. It allows the client to keep track of which response goes with which request. This makes asynchronous calls easier. **REQUIRED**

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

> .. switcher::

Reviewer: Is this there on purpose? For the "JSON" title maybe?

Author: Yes for the JSON title. But I don't know if it is really necessary since all the payload displayed in this column are JSON

    .. code-block:: json

            {
                "jsonrpc": string,
                "method": string,
                "params": {
                        "account_token": string (hex),
                        "version": int,
                        "documents": [string],
                        "user_infos": {
                                "user_company_vat": string,
                                "user_company_name": string,
                                "user_company_country_code": string,
                                "user_lang": string,
                                "user_email": string,
                        },
                },
                "id": string (hex),
            }

Response
^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``: A string specifying the version of the JSON-RPC protocol. It will be “2.0”.
* ``id``: The identifier you set in the request body.
* ``result``: 

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailled in the table below.

Reviewer 3: are **detailed** in the table below.

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailed in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``status_code``: The code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailed in the table below.
```

>     * ``status_msg``: A string giving verbose details about the request status.

Author: Well we will not change our entire API to use JSON-RPC correctly. It is too late :(

>     * ``status_msg``: A string giving verbose details about the request status.

Reviewer 2: Yes I understand that, I'm saying above when explaining that the API uses jsonrpc maybe put a note box or a footnote which explains that it doesn't actually use jsonrpc error scheme, instead the API has its own error scheme bundled inside a "succesful" JSON-RPC result.

>     * ``document_id``: Only present if request succeeded.

Reviewer 3: Only present **if the request is successful**.

=============  ==============================================================
 status_code       status_msg
=============  ==============================================================
0              Success
2              An error occured
3              You don't have enough credit

> 6              Unsupported image format

Author: It should be *Unsupported file format. We only accept pdf, jpg, png and bmp files.
If you send a txt file you will receive a status code 6.

> 6              Unsupported image format

Reviewer 2: Cool, then yeah "file" is probably better.

> 9              Server is currently under maintenance. Please retry later.

Reviewer 3: Please **try again** later.

=============  ==============================================================

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "id": string,
            "result": {
                "status_code": int,
                "status_msg": string,
                "document_id": int,
            }
        }

.. _webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results:

> /iap/invoice_extract/get_results (POST)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``/iap/invoice_extract/get_results (POST)``
```

'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^
Request the results of the documents ids obtained with the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` route. Can either return the results or a "request pending" message.

Request Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``method``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``params``:

>     * ``version``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**

Reviewer: That's not very pleasant to read. Maybe you could make use of [substitutions](https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reuse.html#use-a-substitution) to repeat the description without repeating the code?

>     * ``documents_ids``: list of ``document_id`` for which you want to get the current parsing status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``documents_ids``: The list of ``document_id`` for which you want to get the current parsing status.
```

* ``id``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "method": string,
            "params": {
                "version": int,
                "documents_ids": [int]
            },
            "id": string (hex),
        }

Response
^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``id``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``result``:
    For each ``document_id``:

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailled in the table below.

Reviewer 3: are **detailed** in the table below.

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailed in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``status_code``: The code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailed in the table below.
```
And so forth for the next occurrences.

    * ``status_msg``: A string giving verbose details about the request status.

>     * ``results``: Only present if request succeeded.

Reviewer 3: **if the request is successful**.

=============  ==========================================================
 status_code       status_msg
=============  ==========================================================
0              Success
1              Not ready
2              An error occured

> 9              Server is currently under maintenance. Please retry later.

Reviewer 3: **try again** later

=============  ==============================================================

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "id": string,
            "result": {
                "document_id_1": {
                    "status_code": int,
                    "status_msg": str,
                    "results": [{"feature_1_name": feature_1_result, 
                                 "feature_2_name": feature_2_result,
                                 …
                                }]
                    },
                "document_id_2": {
                    "status_code": int,
                    "status_msg": str,
                    "results": [{"feature_1_name": feature_1_result, 
                                 "feature_2_name": feature_2_result,
                                 …
                                }]
                    },
                    ...
            }
        }

.. _webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results/feature_result:

> ``feature_result``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``feature_result``
```

> '''''''''''''''''''

Author: A feature is a field we want to detect on the invoice (as total, due_date,...). For each feature we return a list of candidate and the candidate we expect to be the right candidate. For example for the total feature you can have dozens of number on the invoice. They all are candidates. For each candidate our model assign a score. The candidate with the highest score is the more likely to be the total of the invoice.

I can try to be more clear on what is a feautre and what is a candidate

* ``selected_value``: the best candidate for this feature.
* ``words``: list of all the candidates for this feature ordered by decreasing score.

.. container:: doc-aside

    .. switcher::

        .. code-block:: json

            {
                "selected_value": candidate_12,
                "words": [candidate_12, candidate_3, candidate_4,...]
            }

> ``candidate``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``candidate``
```

''''''''''''''

> * ``content``: representation of the candidate.

Author: content is the textual representation of the candidate

> * ``coords``: ``[center_x, center_y, width, height, rotation_angle]``. The position and dimensions are relative to the size of the page and are therefore between 0 and 1. The rotation angle is in degree clockwise.  

Reviewer 3: The angle is a clockwise rotation measured in degrees.

> * ``page``: page on which the candidate is located (starts at 0).

Author: Yes. Not clear enough ? "page of the original document on which the candidate is located" ?

> * ``page``: page on which the candidate is located (starts at 0).

Reviewer 2: It's ok, I just wasn't super sure why these two fields would be returned.

.. container:: doc-aside

    .. switcher::

        .. code-block:: json

            {
                "content": string|float,
                "coords": [float, float, float, float, float],
                "page": int
            }

+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Feature name        | Specifities                                                                        |
+=====================+====================================================================================+

> | SWIFT_code          | **content** is a dictionary encoded as a string.                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ``SWIFT_code``          | **content** is a dictionary encoded as a string.                                   |
```
I'd just wrap all those technical terms for better clarity.

|                     |                                                                                    |

> |                     | It contains information about the detected SWIFT code (also called BIC).           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                     | It contains information about the detected SWIFT code (or BIC).           |
```
Might be worth linking to the ISO 9362 wiki page for clarification / explanation?

Author: Ok

| global_taxes_amount | **content** is a float                                                             |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| invoice_id          | **content** is a string                                                            |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| subtotal            | **content** is a float                                                             |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| total               | **content** is a float                                                             |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| supplier            | **content** is a string                                                            |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

``feature_result`` for the ``invoice_lines`` feature

> ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Author: It is a complete replacement for feature_result then it needs a specific section explaining the format.

> ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Reviewer 2: Right, so you'd have e.g.
```json
{ 
    "invoice_id": {
        "selected_value": 8,
        "words": [8, 0]
    },
    "subtotal": {
        "selected_value": 42,
        "words": [42, 12, 77]
    },
    "invoice_lines": [{
         "description": ...
    }]
```
?

> It follows a more specific structure. It is basically a list of dictionaries where each dictionary represents an invoice line. Each value follows a :ref:`feature_result <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results/feature_result>` structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It follows a more specific structure. It is basically a list of dictionaries where each dictionary represents an invoice line. Each value follows a :ref:`webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results/feature_result` structure.
```

.. container:: doc-aside

    .. switcher::

        .. code-block:: json

            [
                {
                    "description": feature_result,
                    "discount": feature_result,
                    "product": feature_result,
                    "quantity": feature_result,
                    "subtotal": feature_result,
                    "total": feature_result,
                    "taxes": feature_result,
                    "total": feature_result,
                    "unit": feature_result,
                    "unit_price": feature_result
                },
                ...
            ]

.. _webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate:

> /iap/invoice_extract/validate (POST)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``/iap/invoice_extract/validate (POST)``
```

''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

> Route that validates different features of an invoice. You can call it multiple times, but currently the system expects one call with all the features.

Author: Indeed it is not clear. The purpose of this route is to validate the result to improve our model. By calling validate you just send us a feedback and tell us if we where right or not. It doesn't have any impact on the invoice itself but it might have impact on the result of the future invoice the client will send us.

> Route that validates different features of an invoice. You can call it multiple times, but currently the system expects one call with all the features.

Reviewer 2: Ah, so this is an explicit data sharing / confirmation thing.

Really cool, but yeah the description should be *way* clarified, I didn't understand the purpose at all.

Request Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``method``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``params``:
    * ``values``: Contains the validation for each feature. The field ``merged_line`` indicates if the ``invoice_lines`` have been merged or not.
    * ``documents_id``: id of the document for which you want to validate the result.

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "method": string,
            "params": {
                "document_id": int,

>                     "values": {

Author: indeed

                        "merged_lines": bool
                        "feature_name_1": validation_1,
                        "feature_name_2": validation_2,
                        ...
                    }
            },
            "id": string (hex),
        }

``validation`` 
''''''''''''''

> validation has the following format for all the features (except for global_taxes and invoice_lines):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validation has the following format for all the features (except for ``global_taxes`` and ``invoice_lines``):
```

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        { "content": string|float }

> ``global_taxes``:

Author: ok

'''''''''''''''''

**content** is a list of dictionaries. Each dictionary represents a tax:

* ``amount``: amount on which the tax is applied.
* ``tax_amount``: amount of the tax.

> * ``tax_amount_type``: indicates if the ``tax_amount`` is a percentage or a fixed value. 

Author: ok

* ``tax_price_include``: indicates if ``amount`` already contains the tax or not. 

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {"content": [
            {
                "amount": float,
                "tax_amount": float,
                "tax_amount_type": "fixed"|"percent",
                "tax_price_include": bool
            },
            ...
        ]}

``invoice_lines``:
''''''''''''''''''

> **lines** is a list of dictionaries. Each dictionary represents an invoice line. The dictionary keys speak for themselves.

Author: yes ^^

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {"lines": [
            {
                "description": string,
                "quantity": float,
                "unit_price": float,
                "product": string,
                "taxes_amount": float,
                "taxes": [
                            {
                                "amount": float, 
                                "type": "fixed"|"percent", 
                                "price_include": bool
                            },
                            ...
                        ],
                "subtotal": float,
                "total": float
            },
            ...
        ]}

Response
^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``id``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``result``: 

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success. Other ``status_code`` are detailled in the table below.

Reviewer 3: **detailed**

    * ``status_msg``: A string giving verbose details about the request status.

=============  ==========================================================
 status_code       status_msg
=============  ==========================================================
0              Success
12             Validation format is incorrect
=============  ==========================================================

> The ``status_code`` 12 is only used in :ref:`integration mode <webservices/extract_api/integration_testing>`

Author: No you don't need to validate all the features. I will precise that. I should remove this line since status code since it is also used in "normal" mode now.

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "id": string,
            "result": {
                "status_code": int,
                "status_msg": string,
            }
        }

.. _webservices/extract_api/integration_testing:

Integration Testing 
===================

> You can test your integration by using *integration_token* as ``account_token`` in the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` request. This token allows you to simulate the entire flow without really parsing a document.

Author: We mention the integration token at the very start of the document. I will reformulate this paragraph to be less confusing !

> You can test your integration by using *integration_token* as ``account_token`` in the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` request. This token allows you to simulate the entire flow without really parsing a document.

Reviewer 2: The start of the document really just mentions it (also says that this section will provide an integration token?), it doesn't really explain.

When calling the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` route with *integration_token* as ``account_token``, the document you send is not parsed. The ``document_id`` you will receive on success is a fake id you can use to test the rest of the flow.

> Since the document is not parsed when you call :ref:`/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>`  you will always receive the same hard coded result. This result follows the response structure described in the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the document is not parsed when you call :ref:`/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>`  you will always receive the same hard-coded result. This result follows the response structure described in the documentation.
```

> The route :ref:`/validate <webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate>` will either return a ``status_code`` 12 to indicate that the format of your validation is incorrect or 0 if it is correct.

Author: Yes not really needed. A little bit redundant

Request the results of the documents ids obtained with the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` route. Can either return the results or a "request pending" message.

Request Body
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``method``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
* ``params``:
    * ``version``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**
    * ``documents_ids``: list of ``document_id`` for which you want to get the current parsing status.
* ``id``: Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`. **REQUIRED**

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "method": string,
            "params": {
                "version": int,
                "documents_ids": [int]
            },
            "id": string (hex),
        }

Response
^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``id``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``result``:

>     For each ``document_id``:

Author: It is a dictionary where the keys are document_id then...

>     For each ``document_id``:

Reviewer 4: Yes, my bad, I thought I implemented that by returning a list with the same order, but it's a dictionary, you're right.

>     For each ``document_id``:

Author: ![Screenshot from 2020-11-05 10-13-05](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49784121/98221144-8fc71b00-1f4f-11eb-9188-b296b3cb8d14.png)

It seems quite clear to me that result is a dictionnary. 
We won't change the endpoint. I will just precise that returned invoice ids are int and that keys are strings

>     For each ``document_id``:

Reviewer 2: > It seems quite clear to me that result is a dictionnary.

Yes but keys being strings is specific to JS/JSON. Ruby or Python do not mind dict keys being integers so if directly taking the `document_id` from the previous and indexing into `result` you'll either get an error (in python) or an empty entry (in ruby).

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request for this document. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success and not 0 otherwise. See table for more details about possible status_code.

Reviewer 4: Same weird formulation

                        "feature_name_1": validation_1,
                        "feature_name_2": validation_2,
                        ...
                    }
            },
            "id": string (hex),
        }

``validation`` 
''''''''''''''

validation has the following format for all the features (except for global_taxes and invoice_lines):

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        { "content": string|float }

``global_taxes``:
'''''''''''''''''

**content** is a list of dictionnaries. Each dictionnary represents a tax:

* ``amount``: amount on which the tax is applied.
* ``tax_amount``: amount of the tax.
* ``tax_amount_type``: indicates if the ``tax_amount`` is a percentage or a fixed value. 
* ``tax_price_include``: indicates if ``amount`` already contains the tax or not. 

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {"content": [
            {
                "amount": float,
                "tax_amount": float,
                "tax_amount_type": "fixed"|"percent",
                "tax_price_include": bool
            },
            ...
        ]}

``invoice_lines``:
''''''''''''''''''

> **lines** is a list of dictionnaries. Each dictionnary represent an invoice line. The dictionnary keys speak for themselves.

Reviewer 4: Same dictionnary => dictionary typos

Reviewer 4: represent => represents

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {"lines": [
            {
                "description": string,
                "quantity": float,
                "unit_price": float,
                "product": string,
                "taxes_amount": float,
                "taxes": [
                            {
                                "amount": float, 
                                "type": "fixed"|"percent", 
                                "price_include": bool
                            },
                            ...
                        ],
                "subtotal": float,
                "total": float
            },
            ...
        ]}

Response
^^^^^^^^

* ``jsonrpc``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``id``:  Same as for :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>`.
* ``result``: 

>     * ``status_code``: code indicating the status of the request. ``status_code`` is 0 in case of success and not 0 otherwise. See table for more details about possible ``status_code``.

Reviewer 4: Same weird formulation

.. rst-class:: setup doc-aside

.. switcher::

    .. code-block:: json

        {
            "jsonrpc": string,
            "id": string,
            "result": {
                "status_code": int,
                "status_msg": string,
            }
        }

.. _webservices/extract_api/integration_testing:

Integration Testing 
===================

You can test your integration by using *integration_token* as ``account_token`` in the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` request. This token allows you to simulate the entire flow without really parsing a document.

When calling the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` route with *integration_token* as ``account_token``, the document you send is not parsed. The ``document_id`` you will receive on success is a fake id you can use to test the rest of the flow.

Since the document is not parsed when you call :ref:`/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>`  you will always receive the same hard coded result. This result follows the response structure described in the documentation.

> In integration mode the route :ref:`/validate <webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate>` might return a ``status_code`` 12 to indicate that the format of your validation is incorrect. When using a real ``account_token``, the ``status_code`` will always be 0 even if the format is incorrect.

Reviewer 4: We should probably change that behavior and return the 12 status code when the validation format is incorrect in non-integration mode.

Author: Agree! It will just add the validation but I think it is very fast so it should not be a problem

Reviewer 5: I agree too :)

Reviewer 4: You should remove the last sentence and adapt the first in that case.

:banner: banners/iap.jpg
:types: api

:code-column:

===============
Extract API
===============

Odoo provide a service allowing you to automate the processing of your invoices. The service scan your document using an Optical Character Recognition engine (OCR) and then use AI based algorithms to extract the fieds of interest as the total, the due date or even the invoice lines. More information can be found on the `demo page <https://www.odoo.com/page/invoice-automation>`_.

This service is a paid service. Each invoice processing will cost you one credit. Three packs of different size can be bought on `iap.odoo.com <https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/259?sortby=date>`_.

=============  ============================  ==============================
Pack            Amount                        Price
=============  ============================  ==============================
Starter Pack    100.00 credits                 15.00€
Standard Pack   1,000.00 credits               120.00€
Advanced Pack   10,000.00 credits              1,000.00€

> =============  ============================  ==============================

Author: FP wanted some "non technical" informations for the user. But just a link to the iap page could be sufficient

                "status_msg": string,
            }
        }

.. _webservices/extract_api/integration_testing:

Integration Testing 
===================

You can test your integration by using *integration_token* as ``account_token`` in the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` request. This token allows you to simulate the entire flow without really parsing a document.

When calling the :ref:`/parse <webservices/extract_api/invoice_parse>` route with *integration_token* as ``account_token``, the document you send is not parsed. The ``document_id`` you will receive on success is a fake id you can use to test the rest of the flow.

Since the document is not parsed when you call :ref:`/get_results <webservices/extract_api/invoice_get_results>`  you will always receive the same hard coded result. This result follows the response structure described in the documentation.

In integration mode the route :ref:`/validate <webservices/extract_api/invoice_validate>` might return a ``status_code`` 12 to indicate that the format of your validation is incorrect. When using a real ``account_token``, the ``status_code`` will always be 0 even if the format is incorrect.

> A python implementation of the full flow can be downloaded :download:`here </webservices/extract_api_implementation.py>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A python implementation of the full flow can be downloaded :download:`here </_static/extract_api_implementation.py>`.
```
Additionally, you must add the following code in `_extensions/odoo_ext/translator.py` (after the `depart_reference` method seems to be a good place) to enable the `download` role:
```py
def visit_download_reference(self, node):
    # type: (nodes.Node) -> None
    if node.hasattr('filename'):
        self.body.append(
            '<a class="reference download internal" href="%s" download="">' %
            posixpath.join(self.builder.dlpath, node['filename']))
        self.body.append(node.astext())
        self.body.append('</a>')
        raise nodes.SkipNode
    else:
        self.context.append('')
def depart_download_reference(self, node):
    # type: (nodes.Node) -> None
    self.body.append(self.context.pop())```
This `translator.py` is our own implementation of the Sphinx translator and it was missing this method, which wasn't the case in the user documentation.

Author: Thanks for your help @AntoineVDV
